README.md, before:

# laravel-elasticsearch
Use Elasticsearch as a database in Laravel to retrieve Eloquent models and perform aggregations.

Build Elasticsearch queries as you're used to with Eloquent, and get Model instances in return, with some nice extras:
- Use `query`, `filter` and `postFilter` query types
- Perform geo searches
- Build and perform complex aggregations on your data
- Use the Elasticsearch scroll API to retrieve large numbers of results 

## Setup
Add elasticsearch connection configuration to database.php
```
'elasticsearch' => [
    'driver'   => 'elasticsearch',
    'host'     => 'localhost',
    'port'     => 9200,
    'database' => 'your_es_index',
    'username' => 'optional_es_username',
    'password' => 'optional_es_username',
    'suffix'   => 'optional_es_index_suffix',
]
```

Create or update your base Model.php class to override `newEloquentBuilder()` and `newBaseQueryBuilder()`:

```PHP
/**
 * Create a new Eloquent builder for the model.
 *
 * @param  \Illuminate\Database\Query\Builder  $query
 * @return \Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Builder|static
 */
public function newEloquentBuilder($query)
{
    switch ($this->getConnectionName()) {
        case static::getElasticsearchConnectionName():
            $builder = new ElasticsearchEloquentBuilder($query);
            break;

        default:
            $builder = new Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Builder($query);
    }

    return $builder;
}

/**
 * Get a new query builder instance for the connection.
 *
 * @return \Illuminate\Database\Query\Builder
 */
protected function newBaseQueryBuilder()
{
    $connection = $this->getConnection();

    switch ($this->getConnectionName()) {
        case static::getElasticsearchConnectionName():
            $builder = new ElasticsearchQueryBuilder($connection, $connection->getQueryGrammar(), $connection->getPostProcessor());
            break;

        default:
            $builder = new Illuminate\Database\Query\Builder($connection, $connection->getPostProcessor());
    }

    return $builder;
}
```

## Search
You're now ready to carry out searches on your data. The query will look for an Elasticsearch index with the same name as the database table that your models reside in.

```PHP
$documents = MyModel::newElasticsearchQuery()
              ->where('date', '>', Carbon\Carbon::now())
              ->get();
```

## Aggregations
Aggregations can be added to a query with an approach that's similar to querying Elasticsearch directly, using nested functions rather than nested arrays. The `aggregation()` method takes three or four arguments:
1. A key to be used for the aggregation
2. The type of aggregation, such as 'filter' or 'terms'
3. (Optional) A callback or array providing options for the aggregation
4. (Optional) A function allowing you to provide further sub-aggregations 

```PHP
$myQuery = MyModel::newElasticsearchQuery()
             ->aggregation(
                 // The key of the aggregation (used in the Elasticsearch response)
                 'my_filter_aggregation',

                 // The type of the aggregation
                 'filter',

                 // A callback providing options to the aggregation, in this case adding filter criteria to a query builder
                 function ($query) {
                     $query->where('lost', '!=', true);
                     $query->where('concierge', true);
                 },

                 // A callback specifying a sub-aggregation
                 function ($builder) {
                     // A simpler aggregation, counting terms in the 'status' field
                     $builder->aggregation('my_terms_aggregation', 'terms', ['field' => 'status']);
                 }
             );

$results = $myQuery->get();
$aggregations = $myQuery->getQuery()->getAggregationResults();
```

## Geo queries
You can filter search results by distance from a geo point or include only those results that fall within given bounds, passing arguments in the format you'd use if querying Elasticsearch directly.

```PHP
$withinDistance = MyModel::newElasticsearchQuery()
                    ->whereGeoDistance('geo_field', [$lat, $lon], $distance);

$withinBounds= MyModel::newElasticsearchQuery()
                 ->whereGeoBoundsIn('geo_field', $boundingBox);
```

## Scroll API
You can use a scroll search to retrieve large numbers of results. Rather than returning a Collection, you'll get a PHP [Generator](http://php.net/manual/en/language.generators.overview.php) function that you can iterate over, where each value is a Model for a single result from Elasticsearch.

```PHP
$documents = MyModel::newElasticsearchQuery()
               ->limit(100000)
               ->usingScroll()
               ->get();

// $documents is a Generator
foreach ($documents as $document){
  echo $document->id;
}
```

## Console
This package ships with the following commands to be used as utilities or as part of your deployment process.

| Command | Arguments | Options | Description |
| ------- | --------- | ------- | ----------- |
| `make:mapping` | `name`: Name of the mapping. This name also determines the name of the index and the alias. | `--update`: Whether the mapping should update an existing index. `--template`: Pass a pre-existing mapping filename to create your new mapping from. | Creates a new mapping migration file. |
| `migrate:mappings` | `index-command`: (Optional) Name of your local Artisan console command that performs the Elasticsearch indexing. If not given, command will be retrieved from `laravel-elasticsearch` config file. | `--index` : Automatically index new mapping.`--swap`: Automatically update the alias after the indexing has finished. | Migrates your mapping files and begins to create the index.|
| `index:rollback` |  |  | Rollback to the previous index migration. |
| `index:remove` | `index`: (Optional) Name of the index to remove from your Elasticsearch cluster. |  | Removes an index from your Elasticsearch cluster. |
| `index:swap` | `alias`: Name of alias to update. `index`: Name of index to update alias to. `old-index`: (Optional) Name of old index. | `--remove-old-index`: Remove old index from your Elasticsearch cluster. | Swap the index your alias points to. |
| `index:list` |  | `--alias`: List active aliases. Pass `"*"` to view all. Other values filter the returned aliases. | Display a list of all indexes in your Elasticsearch cluster. |


### Mappings and Aliases
When creating a new index during a `migrate:mappings` the command will automatically create an alias based on the migration name by removing the date string. For example the migration `2018_08_03_095804_users.json` will create the alias `users`.

During the first migration an index appears in the `migrate:mappings` command will also switch the alias to the latest index mapping.  The above will only happen when the alias does not already exist.

Future migrations will require you to use the `--swap` option.

Commit message:

doc: index:copy command documentation

README.md, after:

# laravel-elasticsearch
Use Elasticsearch as a database in Laravel to retrieve Eloquent models and perform aggregations.

Build Elasticsearch queries as you're used to with Eloquent, and get Model instances in return, with some nice extras:
- Use `query`, `filter` and `postFilter` query types
- Perform geo searches
- Build and perform complex aggregations on your data
- Use the Elasticsearch scroll API to retrieve large numbers of results 

## Setup
Add elasticsearch connection configuration to database.php
```
'elasticsearch' => [
    'driver'   => 'elasticsearch',
    'host'     => 'localhost',
    'port'     => 9200,
    'database' => 'your_es_index',
    'username' => 'optional_es_username',
    'password' => 'optional_es_username',
    'suffix'   => 'optional_es_index_suffix',
]
```

Create or update your base Model.php class to override `newEloquentBuilder()` and `newBaseQueryBuilder()`:

```PHP
/**
 * Create a new Eloquent builder for the model.
 *
 * @param  \Illuminate\Database\Query\Builder  $query
 * @return \Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Builder|static
 */
public function newEloquentBuilder($query)
{
    switch ($this->getConnectionName()) {
        case static::getElasticsearchConnectionName():
            $builder = new ElasticsearchEloquentBuilder($query);
            break;

        default:
            $builder = new Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Builder($query);
    }

    return $builder;
}

/**
 * Get a new query builder instance for the connection.
 *
 * @return \Illuminate\Database\Query\Builder
 */
protected function newBaseQueryBuilder()
{
    $connection = $this->getConnection();

    switch ($this->getConnectionName()) {
        case static::getElasticsearchConnectionName():
            $builder = new ElasticsearchQueryBuilder($connection, $connection->getQueryGrammar(), $connection->getPostProcessor());
            break;

        default:
            $builder = new Illuminate\Database\Query\Builder($connection, $connection->getPostProcessor());
    }

    return $builder;
}
```

## Search
You're now ready to carry out searches on your data. The query will look for an Elasticsearch index with the same name as the database table that your models reside in.

```PHP
$documents = MyModel::newElasticsearchQuery()
              ->where('date', '>', Carbon\Carbon::now())
              ->get();
```

## Aggregations
Aggregations can be added to a query with an approach that's similar to querying Elasticsearch directly, using nested functions rather than nested arrays. The `aggregation()` method takes three or four arguments:
1. A key to be used for the aggregation
2. The type of aggregation, such as 'filter' or 'terms'
3. (Optional) A callback or array providing options for the aggregation
4. (Optional) A function allowing you to provide further sub-aggregations 

```PHP
$myQuery = MyModel::newElasticsearchQuery()
             ->aggregation(
                 // The key of the aggregation (used in the Elasticsearch response)
                 'my_filter_aggregation',

                 // The type of the aggregation
                 'filter',

                 // A callback providing options to the aggregation, in this case adding filter criteria to a query builder
                 function ($query) {
                     $query->where('lost', '!=', true);
                     $query->where('concierge', true);
                 },

                 // A callback specifying a sub-aggregation
                 function ($builder) {
                     // A simpler aggregation, counting terms in the 'status' field
                     $builder->aggregation('my_terms_aggregation', 'terms', ['field' => 'status']);
                 }
             );

$results = $myQuery->get();
$aggregations = $myQuery->getQuery()->getAggregationResults();
```

## Geo queries
You can filter search results by distance from a geo point or include only those results that fall within given bounds, passing arguments in the format you'd use if querying Elasticsearch directly.

```PHP
$withinDistance = MyModel::newElasticsearchQuery()
                    ->whereGeoDistance('geo_field', [$lat, $lon], $distance);

$withinBounds= MyModel::newElasticsearchQuery()
                 ->whereGeoBoundsIn('geo_field', $boundingBox);
```

## Scroll API
You can use a scroll search to retrieve large numbers of results. Rather than returning a Collection, you'll get a PHP [Generator](http://php.net/manual/en/language.generators.overview.php) function that you can iterate over, where each value is a Model for a single result from Elasticsearch.

```PHP
$documents = MyModel::newElasticsearchQuery()
               ->limit(100000)
               ->usingScroll()
               ->get();

// $documents is a Generator
foreach ($documents as $document){
  echo $document->id;
}
```

## Console
This package ships with the following commands to be used as utilities or as part of your deployment process.

| Command | Arguments | Options | Description |
| ------- | --------- | ------- | ----------- |
| `make:mapping` | `name`: Name of the mapping. This name also determines the name of the index and the alias. | `--update`: Whether the mapping should update an existing index. `--template`: Pass a pre-existing mapping filename to create your new mapping from. | Creates a new mapping migration file. |
| `migrate:mappings` | `index-command`: (Optional) Name of your local Artisan console command that performs the Elasticsearch indexing. If not given, command will be retrieved from `laravel-elasticsearch` config file. | `--index` : Automatically index new mapping.`--swap`: Automatically update the alias after the indexing has finished. | Migrates your mapping files and begins to create the index.|
| `index:rollback` |  |  | Rollback to the previous index migration. |
| `index:remove` | `index`: (Optional) Name of the index to remove from your Elasticsearch cluster. |  | Removes an index from your Elasticsearch cluster. |
| `index:swap` | `alias`: Name of alias to update. `index`: Name of index to update alias to. `old-index`: (Optional) Name of old index. | `--remove-old-index`: Remove old index from your Elasticsearch cluster. | Swap the index your alias points to. |
| `index:list` |  | `--alias`: List active aliases. Pass `"*"` to view all. Other values filter the returned aliases. | Display a list of all indexes in your Elasticsearch cluster. |
| `index:copy` | `from`: index to copy from. `to`: the index to copy from | | Populate an index with all documents from another index


### Mappings and Aliases
When creating a new index during a `migrate:mappings` the command will automatically create an alias based on the migration name by removing the date string. For example the migration `2018_08_03_095804_users.json` will create the alias `users`.

During the first migration an index appears in the `migrate:mappings` command will also switch the alias to the latest index mapping.  The above will only happen when the alias does not already exist.

Future migrations will require you to use the `--swap` option.
